.\" acpitool.1 -- 
.\" Created: Tue Jul 13 2004 by David Leemans
.\" Copyright 2004  David Leemans (davidleemans |at| scarlet |dot| be)
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" 
.TH ACPITOOL "1" "24 Jul 2008" "AcpiTool 0.5" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
acpitool \- a Linux ACPI client, allowing you to query or set ACPI values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B acpitool [ \-aAbBcefFhjlmnosStTvVwWz ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B acpitool 
is a Linux ACPI client. It simply reads 
.I /proc/acpi 
or 
.I /sys/class 
entries and presents the output in a meaningfull, human-readable format.
.br

It provides a.o. information on battery status, AC adapter presence, thermal reading, etc. This command is
most useful on laptops with an ACPI compliant BIOS and a Linux kernel, preferably from the 2.6 series, with ACPI enabled.
.br

.B Acpitool 
also allows the machine to be put into standby, if your laptop supports it.
.br

If your laptop is a 
.B Toshiba
, it allows you to set the LCD brighness level and toggle the fan on/off. 
.br

If you have an
.B Asus
laptop, it can also set the LCD brightness level, switch the LCD panel on or off, and control the mail led and wireless led.

If you have an
.B IBM Thinkpad
laptop, it can once again set the LCD brightness level, and also eject the ultrabay device.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a, --ac_adapter  
Show AC adapter presence
.TP
.B \-A  
Show supported Asus ACPI extensions (LCD brightness level, video out routing DSDT/acpi4asus info)
.TP
.B \-b
Show battery status information, available batteries only.
.TP
.B \-B, --battery
Show detailed battery status information, for all battery entries found.
.TP
.B \-c, --cpu
Show CPU information (type, speed, PM capabilities, throttling states, c-state usage, frequency scaling).
.TP
.B \-e
Show just about everything : more info on the batteries, ACPI version, kernel version, CPU, . . .
.TP
.B \-f, --fan
Show fan status (shows fan info specific to Toshiba or IBM Thinkpad, if applicable).
.TP
.B \-F x
Force the fan on (x=1) or switch back to auto mode (x=0). Works only on Toshiba laptops.
The fan is switched off ONLY if it was forced on first, not if it was switched on 
automatically. Requires write access to 
.I /proc/acpi/toshiba/fan
.TP
.B \-h, --help
Show help text.
.TP
.B \-j
Eject Thinkpad ultrabay device.
Requires write acces to
.I /proc/acpi/ibm/bay
.
.TP
.B \-l x
Set LCD brightness level to x, where x is in the range 0..7. Works only on Toshiba and IBM Thinkpad laptops.
Requires write access to 
.I /proc/acpi/tochiba/lcd
or
.I /proc/acpi/ibm/brightness
.
.br
Illegal values for x will result in the value being set to either 0 or 7.
.TP
.B \-m x
Switch the mail led on (x=1) or off (x=0). Works only on Asus laptops.
Requires write access to 
.I /proc/acpi/asus/mled
.
.br
.TP
.B \-n x
Switch the wireless led on (x=1) or off (x=0). Works only on Asus laptops.
Requires write access to 
.I /proc/acpi/asus/wled
.
.br
.TP
.B \-o x
Switch the LCD panel on (x=1) or off (x=0). Works only on Asus laptops.
Requires write access to 
.I /proc/acpi/asus/lcd
.
.br
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-suspend to memory
Put the machine into sleep state S3, if possible.
Requires write access to 
.I /proc/acpi/sleep 
(kernel 2.4.x)
or
.I /sys/power/state
(kernel 2.6.x)
.
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-suspend to disk ?
Put the machine into sleep state S4, if possible.
Requires write access to 
.I /proc/acpi/sleep 
(kernel 2.4.x)
or
.I /sys/power/state
(kernel 2.6.x)
.
.TP
.B \-t, --thermal
Show thermal zone(s) information, including trip_points.
.TP
.B \-T, --Toshiba
Show supported Toshiba ACPI extensions, currently being LCD brightness level, video out routing (what display
is the video chip sending to) and fan status (on/off, forced or not). 
.TP
.B \-v
Show more verbose output when something is not found. Makes sense only when used together with other options. 
.TP
.B \-V, --version
Show acpitool version number and release date, then exit. 
.TP
.B \-w
Show the wakeup capable devices. (Available since ACPI 20040715, check your version).  
.TP
.B \-W x
Enable/disable wakeup capable device x. Run 'acpitool -w' to see valid numbers for x.
Requires write access to 
.I /proc/acpi/wakeup
.
.TP
.B \-z x
Set Asus LCD brightness level to x, where x is 0..15. Works only on Asus laptops.
Requires write access to 
.I /proc/acpi/asus/brn
.
.SH REMARKS
This program absolutely requires a Linux kernel with ACPI support enabled. This program will not work
without it. 
.br

IBM Thinkpad support is part of the Linux kernel since kernel 2.6.10. 
.br

Don't blame me if
.B acpitool
can't suspend your laptop : there are quite some problematic laptops out there. Check the acpi-bugzilla
list if you don't believe me ;)
.br

Note that some options, like -F, -l , -j, -s, -W  and -z, require write access to some of the  
.I /proc/acpi
entries. This requires 
.B acpitool
either to be run as
.B root
or either administrative measures must be taken, most likely by root, to allow ordinary users to write
to these files. Creating a group for ACPI users and setting permissions accordingly comes to mind.
.br

Also note that older laptops (< 2000) often simply don't have ACPI support, they usually support APM only.
.SH BUGS
Let me know if you think you found one.
.SH FILES
.I /proc/acpi/...
.br
.I /proc/acpi/toshiba
.br
.I /proc/acpi/asus
.br
.I /proc/acpi/ibm
.br
.I /sys/power/state
.SH HOMEPAGE
http://freeunix.dyndns.org:8000/site2/acpitool.shtml
.SH AUTHOR
This program is written and maintained by David Leemans (davidleemans |at| scarlet |dot| be) and may be freely
distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License.  There is
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY for this program. 
